# Pre-Processing

## Auto-prefixer

One aspect of CSS that often catches people are vendor prefixes that are required for CSS to work cross-browser.
This problem is taken care of by a tool called [Auto-prefixer](https://github.com/ai/autoprefixer).

This tool sweeps the CSS and automatically applies vendor prefixes for us depending on settings we give it. We
tell it the browsers we want to support and it will figure out the rest.

This is performed automatically during the Grunt build so just **write all CSS without vendor prefixes.**

## Sass

Sass is a CSS pre-processor that adds more programming language features to CSS. It gives us the ability to create
functions, mixins and variables amongst other things.

Sass is used in more complex CSS packages where dynamic features are required. This includes generating the grid
and spacing classes.

These days we're generally leaning towards using plain CSS instead of Sass, but Sass is still welcome to be used
while development individual Components as long as the built CSS files are exported instead of the Sass files.

### Learning Sass

To learn more about how Sass works there are various sites worth reading:

* [Sass Website](http://sass-lang.com/)
* [The Sass Way](http://thesassway.com/)

### Component and Sass

Component doesn't support Sass out of the box so we need to either compile it with Grunt or compile it before
using the Component.

We currently run Sass in the Grunt build but we're going to stop doing that as it's too slow and creates
too many complexities. To use Sass in Component packages they should be compiled to CSS before being
published.

For example, here is a `component.json` file of a Component package that uses Sass for development
but exposes just the built CSS.

```json
{
  "name": "responsive-grid",
  "version": "0.3.0",
  "development": {
    "nib-styles/fractional-widths": "0.0.1",
    "nib-styles/spacing-classes": "0.1.0"
  },
  "styles": [
    "index.css"
  ]
}
```

The folder structure looks like this:

```
responsive-grid/
  component.json
  index.scss
  index.css
```

The Sass file is included in the git repository, but so is the compiled CSS file, and this is what
is linked to in the `component.json` file. This allows us to use Sass to develop Components but
doesn't complicate the build process.

### Sass Dependencies

In the case where Sass is used to develop a Component, you can include any Sass dependencies in the
`development` section of the manifest.

This allows us to run `component install --dev` and have the Sass packages pull down, then we
can simply run a command `sass index.scss index.css --load-path components`.

### Sass-only Components

There are times when a Component will need to export Sass for other packages to use. This might include
just exposing some variables or mixins. To do this, include the Sass files in the `files` section of
the manifest.

The cases for needing Sass Components is rare and they are never directly used in the project, only in
the development of smaller Components.

So far we only have a few Sass-only Components:

* nib-styles/mixins
* nib-styles/colors
* nib-styles/fractional-widths
* nib-styles/spacing-classes
