# Introduction

## Goodbye jQuery

We're phasing out jQuery and it isn't being used in any new code. This is due to the fact that the library is very large, handles very old browsers we don't support, encourages bad coding patterns and untestable code, and most of the methods are available as native DOM methods.

## MVC Patterns

Most of our complex UI elements are built from models, views and reactive elements. MVC in JavaScript is different from other languages as it is functional and related to UI elements, not just data. 

Views in JavaScript are object that control a specific DOM element, listen for user input and perform actions on the model.

Models are objects that have properties, emit events when these properties changes and have the ability to save and sync their data to the server. Models can be associated with just data or they can also hold information about the current state of the view (eg. the current selected tab).

## Reactive

We use reactive data-bindings to update the DOM. This means there is much less time spent traversing and wiring up the DOM as well as fewer chances for creating memory leaks.

Reactive programming extends the DOM with new functionality using data attributes that bind the element to a model object. When that model object changes the DOM will automatically update as well.

Using reactive programming in conjunction with models and views creates very clean, reusable and testable code. 

## CommonJS Modules

We use a JavaScript module system to allow us to break up the code into smaller chunks. Traditionally it was difficult to split JavaScript into multiple files. You would need to add more script tags to the page in the correct order and share objects and functions by setting them globally on the window object.

We don't need to do that anymore. We use the CommonJS module system that allows us to import and export other modules and handles dependency resolution. This happens automatically when building using Component.

## JSHint

JavaScript is a very flexible language and allows many different styles. To ensure we are all coding in the same style and following the best practices, JShint is run over all the code during the build. This will fail the build if code doesn't meet a certain or it is written in a way that isn't considered best practice.

By doing this it will make it easier to share code between many developers and will avoid many runtime issues due to language quirks.