# Testing

We unit test our JavaScript code using Mocha and try to do BDD when possible. Testing client-side code can be frustrating and difficult, but it is definitely worth having the safety there.

Breaking code into smaller modules will make testing much less painful. So make sure you're breaking components up and testing them individually and in isolation.

## The Basics

Running tests client-side involves using a test runner. This is a html file that loads the tests and runs them. This allows us to test the code in a real browser engine. This means we have a plain, static HTML file and then add the tests and code as script tags. Opening this page in a browser runs the tests.

This isn't the optimal solution for running tests in CI though, so we use PhantomJS to open the test runner. We use a tool called 'mocha-phantomjs' to easily run the tests.

## Setting up tests

If you're using the generators and selected 'yes' to tests, a `test` folder will have been created in the package.

Otherwise you can run:

```
mocha init test
```

This will create a directory called 'test' and add the test runner files.

Now open `test/index.html` and add the built files from the component:

```html
<script src="../build/build-dev.js"></script>
<script src="tests.js"></script>
```
Then open this file in a browser.

## Writing Tests

For more information on writing tests, read the [Mocha Documention](http://visionmedia.github.io/mocha/)

## Assertion and Stubbing Libraries

### [assert](http://github.com/component/assert)
Basic assertion library. Add this as a development dependency in your component.json as `component/assert`.

### [Chai](http://chaijs.com/)
Advanced assertion library. Useful if doing complex testing. Add this as a development dependency in your component.json as `chaijs/chai`.

### [Sinon](http://sinonjs.org/)
Standalone test spies, stubs and mocks. You'll need to download and manually link to this library.

## Running in CI

Tests are run in CI using mocha-phantomjs. This is a grunt task that goes through and finds all `test/index.html` files and runs them through PhantomJS.