# Grunt

## Introduction

Grunt is the  task-based system written in node.js we use for compiling the CSS, JS and HTML. Grunt is run from the command line and uses a configuration file named `Gruntfile.js` that lives within the project. Grunt tasks are just npm packages that live in the node_modules directory.

Currently we're using Grunt for:

* Minification of CSS and JS
* Compiling Component packages
* Automatically adding prefixes to CSS
* Compiling Sass to CSS
* Checking JS for errors and best-practices
* Running JS unit tests in Mocha

## Assumed Knowledge

* Node.js
* npm

## Why use a front-end build tool?

In one word: automation. The less work you have to do when performing repetitive tasks like minification, compilation, unit testing, linting, etc, the easier your job becomes. After you've configured it, a task runner can do most of that mundane work for you—and your team—with basically zero effort.

The Grunt ecosystem is huge and it's growing every day. With literally hundreds of plugins to choose from, you can use Grunt to automate just about anything with a minimum of effort. If someone hasn't already built what you need, authoring and publishing your own Grunt plugin to npm is a breeze.

## Plugins

[Grunt plugins]((http://gruntjs.com/plugins)) are added to the build using npm (Node Package Manager). Adding new functionality to the build is as easy as running an command and then adding some config to the `Gruntfile.js`.

## Getting Started

The first thing to do is to read the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) section on the Grunt.js website. This will cover everything from the basics to creating custom build tasks.