# Component

## Introduction

Component is a package manager for front-end components. It uses Github as a registry so users don't need
to create a separate account to publish Component packages. A Component package can contain any type of
file, but in general they contain HTML, CSS and JS. Abstracted languages can be used via plugins but it
is not recommended to do so.

## Why Components?

Client-side development currently suffers from a lack of structure, more importantly this lack of structure and fundamental sharing of assets makes it difficult to abstract libraries into smaller subsets. Normally you would think twice about separating your library into several parts, because telling end-users to install several pieces is tedious, error-prone, and frankly annoying. Component makes this extremely easy, and we may all benefit from creating smaller lego-blocks for the web.

## Example

Here are a few examples of projects that can be used by Component:

* [emitter](https://github.com/component/emitter)
* [model](https://github.com/component/model)
* [view](https://github.com/component/view)

These are able to be used by Component because they have a `component.json` manifest file that allows
Component to package and build it by knowing what parts it has.

## Manifest

Every package consists of a `component.json` file. This is a manifest that describes the package. It gives it
a name, a description, a version, lists the files and the dependencies. Here is an example:

```json
{
  "name": "dialog",
  "styles": [
    "index.css"
  ],
  "scripts": [
    "index.js"
  ],
  "dependencies": {
    "component/emitter": "*"
  }
}
```

For a full overview of the available fields in a `component.json` file, [read the spec](https://github.com/component/component/wiki/Spec).

## Command Line Tool

Component has a command line tool for building packages and installing dependencies. This can be installed
via npm:

```
npm install -g component
```

Packages are usually built with this command-line tool, although the builder and installer are just implementations
of the Component spec.

Installing this gives access to two important functions: `component build` and `component install`.

## Building Components

Running `component build`
within a package will create a build directory and compile everything ready to be used in the browser.

* For JS this means wrapping everything in the CommonJS module format and exposing a `require` function.
* For CSS this means combining all of the stylesheets in the package (including dependencies) and creating a `build.css` file.
* Images and files are also copied over to the build directory.

The means the build folder is completely independant.

## Dependencies

A Component package can have any number of dependencies. These are listed in the `dependencies` field of the manifest.
These refer to a Github project. All dependencies are listed in the format `"USER/PROJECT": "TAG"`. Component uses git
tags to determine the versions of a package.

## File Listing

When installing dependencies of a package it will traverse the dependency tree and download everything it needs. Component
does simple `GET` requests on `http://raw.github.com` to fetch the files. This is why we need to declare all of the files
in a package. This allows Component to install dependencies very fast.

There are a number of 'official' fields for files in the `component.json` manifest:

* `scripts` for JavaScript files.
* `styles` for CSS files. Component will combine all CSS files together during the build automatically.
* `templates` maily for HTML files. These files will able to be `require`d in the JavaScript as plain strings.
* `files` for any type of file. They will all be copied over to the build directory.
* `images` for any images needed by the package. These will also be copied over to the build directory.

These fields can be manipulated by Component plugins to allow the use of pre-processed languages like Sass and Jade. For
simplicities sake, plain files should always be used.

## Local Components

Not all packages are stored in remote repositories on Github. We write all of our code as Component packages. This means that
there are never stray files with hundreds of lines of mangled, unrelated JS lying around. Instead, we break up these bits of
functionality in local components.

A local component is just a package that likes in the project. We have a folder where we store all local packages and they
are included in the build.

```
Gruntfile.js
package.json
bundles/
  common/
    component.json
lib/
  slideshow/
  dialog/
  overlay/
  products/
  cart/
  tabs/
```

The `lib` folder contains all of the local components in this example. Now the `bundles/common` Component package can
require the packages it needs from lib. To do this we would need to adjust the manifest:

```json
{
  "name": "common",
  "paths": ["../../lib"],
  "local": [
    "slideshow",
    "dialog",
    "overlay"
  ]
}
```

We've added a `paths` field which adds lookup paths for local components. We then tell it the names of the packages we
want to use. Now when we build the `common` package, it will pull in all the dependencies it needs.