# CommonJS

Within Components the JS is written in the CommonJS format. This allows us to use
three objects related to importing and exporting modules. These are `require`,
`module` and `exports`.

What this means is that the context in which the JS is executed is completely scoped to that file.
For example:

```js
var Emitter = require('emitter');

function User() {
  this.emitter = new Emitter();
}

module.exports = User;
```

In this example, we are requiring a module named `emitter`, creating a `User` function and then
exporting that via `module.exports`. This means when another module requires this module it will
receive the `User` function.

## Why

The problem with JavaScript is that it lacks any sort of module system for requiring and exporting
modules. Normally everything is in the global scope, however, with CommonJS modules each module has
it's own scope and cannot access other modules unless it imports them.

This allows us to split up our JavaScript files into smaller chunks instead of placing all our
code in a single file.

Writing JavaScript with a real module system makes it extremely powerful. Combined with a package
manager like Component it means we can write small modules and share them with the community and tie
them together into a larger system.

Normally, to get around littering the global scope, you wrap every JS file in an IIFE:

```js
(function(){
  // code here
})()
```

This creates a local scope so variables don't leak globally. With CommonJS modules we don't need
to worry about this, this is taken care of by the module builder.

## Building Modules

Building these CommonJS modules is all handled by Component. When running `component build` in a package
it will build everything in `scripts` into something the browser can use.

This whole thing is transparent. The only thing worth knowing is that all JavaScript written for
Component will have access to `require`, `module` and `export`.

## How it works

Because the CommonJS module objects like `require` aren't normally available in the browser, we
need to use Component to build the JS.

First, it tracks down all the modules that are required by a package. It does this using the `component.json`
file that is declaring it's dependencies.

Second, it wraps each file (module) in a function and pass in `require`, `module` and `exports`

```js
require.regiser('user', function(require, module, exports){
  var Emitter = require('emitter');
  function User() {
    this.emitter = new Emitter();
  }
  module.exports = User;
});
```

It then concatenates all the modules together in a single file. When you see the built JS
you'll notice there is the `require` logic placed at the top and then each module wrapped
like above.

## Requiring Modules

When you call `require` in JavaScript you can either specify a module by name or require
a file in the current package using a file path. Here's an example:

```js
var User = require('user');
```

In this package there will be a dependency called 'user'. It might look something like this

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "nib/user": "1.0.0"
  }
}
```

When building, Component creates two ways to require this dependency, by project name:

```js
var User = require('user');
```

or using the full name if there are two dependencies with the same name:

```js
var User = require('nib-user');
```

It replaces the '/' with a dash when requiring it. It is very rare you'll need to
use this syntax and you can usually stick to the standard way of using just the name.

## Exporting Modules

Modules can also export something that other packages can use. This is done via the `exports`
and `module.exports` variables.

```js
var Emitter = require('emitter');

function User() {
  this.emitter = new Emitter();
}

module.exports = User;
```

In this example, when another module requires this file it will receive the `User` function.

```js
var User = require('user');
```

In general, `module.exports` is used when you just need to export a single object or function. You
can attach items to the `exports` object to. When using `exports`, you require the parts individually:

```js
exports.User = user;
exports.Person = person;
```

Then access them like this:

```
var User = require('people').user;
var Person = require('people').person;
```

* Use `exports` when you have many things to export
* Use `module.exports` when you have a single thing to export