# Assets

Component makes managing assets much easier as well. Each package includes all of the assets
they need to function. For example, you could create a package for an icon set. This package
could include the stylesheet with the classes for using the icons and all of the icon images
as well.

This means you can pick up and move a Component package and it will continue to work. A few
more examples:

* A typography package could include the fonts it uses
* A slideshow could include the images for the next/previous buttons
* A font package would make it easy to install new fonts - `component install fonts/helvetica`
* A button package could include arrow images or background gradients

## Adding assets to a package

Assets take two forms - images and files. By adding files to these fields in the `component.json`
Component will move these assets to the build folder when running `component build`.

```json
{
  "name": "Helveticons",
  "styles": ["index.css"],
  "images": [
    "icons/arrow.png",
    "icons/person.png"
  ]
}
```

When building this component, the `build` folder will look like this:

```
build/
  helveticons/
    icons/
      arrow.png
      person.png
  build.css
```

## CSS Urls

Another benefit of building with Component is that it will take care of CSS image urls. CSS is
hard to make modular and move around due to the relative image pages - you never know where a
file will be built and served from when writing the CSS.

Component lets you write your CSS with relative paths. Following from the example above, the
CSS may look like this:

```css
.icon-person {
  background: url('icons/person.png');
}
```

When building the CSS, the `build.css` will look like this:

```css
.icon-person {
  background: url('helveticons/icons/person.png');
}
```

It has rewritten the URLs to match the structure of the build folder. Component will do this
with any `url` CSS function that has a relative path. It will ignore absolute paths and urls.
