# Frequently Used Components

There are a number of Components that we frequently use and are the foundation of most of the JS work.

## [Reactive](https://github.com/component/reactive)

Reactive is a small data-binding library. We use it for all of our templating needs. Instead of using a templating
language, we use the DOM and augment it with new functionality. It's sort of like Angular.js but without all the
bits we don't need.

## [Emitter](https://github.com/component/emitter)

This is a standard event emitter. Event-driven patterns are essential for writing good asyncronous code. Nearly
all communication between modules on a page is done through events. It makes testing super easy and decouples
everything really well.

## [Bus](https://github.com/component/bus)

This is a global event emitter. You use it when you need to emit events at a page-level. For example, in a project
there can only be one logged in user, so you might emit a "logged in" event globally when a user logs in. Another example
may be a form and a shopping cart.

Use this when modules are singletons and want to communicate across the application.

## [DOM](https://github.com/component/dom)

We don't use jQuery because we don't need browser support back to IE6. Instead we use native DOM methods. However, the
DOM API is a little sloppy, so we can use the DOM Component to make things easier. This is a wrapper for elements like
jQuery but only uses native DOM methods and is much, much smaller.

You should always prefer usin
g native methods over this Component, however if you need to do lots of DOM manipulation
then it might be helpful. It's worth noting that if any package is doing a lot of DOM manipulation it's a sign of
bad code. DOM manipulation, in most cases, should be pushed to Reactive.

## [Observable](https://github.com/anthonyshort/observable)

The Observable Component is a bare-bones model. It is a basic object that has `get` and `set` methods for setting
properties. When properties change they emit `change` events allowing modules to hook into changes.

We use Observable as the model for Reactive.

Observable is one of the key building blocks of our architecture. It is the M in MV* in most cases. You will frequently
use Observable in conjunction with Reactive and View.
